.TH TXT2PKT 1 "txt2pkt" "05 April 2001" "Husky - Portable Fidonet Software"
.SH NAME
txt2paket \- Posts a Textfile in an Echoarea
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2pkt
.B [ -af "<from address>" ]
.B [ -at "<to address>" ]
.RS 7
.B [ -xf "<pkt from address>" ]
.B [ -xt "<pkt to address>" ]
.br
.B [ -af "<from address>" ]
.B [ -at "<to address>" ]
.br
.B [ -nf "<from name>" ]
.B [ -nt "<to name>" ]
.br
.B [ -e "echo name" ]
.B [ -p "password" ]
.B [ -t "tearline" ]
.br
.B [ -o "origin" ]
.B [ -s "subject" ]
.B [ -d "<directory>" ]
.br
.B <text file> | -
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B txt2pkt
posts a given Textfile into Netmail or EchoArea. Every Information
txt2pkt needs (From, To, Origin,...) must be given to txt2pkt via
commandline.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B -xf "<pkt from address>" 
The FROM-Aka for the Packet.
.TP 10
.B -xt "<pkt to address>" 
The TO-Aka for the Packet.
.TP 10
.B -af "<from address>" 
The FROM-Aka for the Message.
.TP 10
.B -at "<to address>" 
The TO-Aka for the Message.
.TP 10
.B -nf "<from name>" 
The FROM-Name for the Message.
.TP 10
.B -nt "<to name>" 
The TO-Name for the Message.
.TP 10
.B -e "echo name" 
The EchoArea where to put the File contents.
.TP 10
.B -p "password" 
The Password for the Packet.
.TP 10
.B -t "tearline" 
Every Message should have one.
.TP 10
.B -o "origin" 
Every Message should have one.
.TP 10
.B -s "subject" 
Could be nice to have.
.TP 10
.B -d "<directory>" 
Where to create the Packet.
.TP
.B <text file>
The Textfile to post. Use hiphen (the '-' sign) for standard input.

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
txt2pkt -nf "Node manager" -af "2:5080/102" \\
.br
-at "2:5080/102" -s "New FileEs" -e "GRUMBLER.INFO" \\
.br
-o "Grumbler FIDOnet node. Ekaterinburg, Russia" \\
.br
-d /fido/inbound-local /fido/log/newfiles


.SH FILES
.br
.nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.ta \w'/fido/etc/config   'u
\fI/fido/etc/config\fR  Default Fidoconfig.
.SH NOTES
This manual page initially written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.br
All Husky-Software is written by various developers. For detailed information
about the Husky-Team take a look at 
http://husky.physcip.uni-stuttgart.de/team.html.
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was written by Joerg Jaspert (JJ) <joerg@goliathbbs.dnsalias.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.br
Modified by Stas Degteff 2:5080/102 <g@grumbler.org>, tested on the FreeBSD

